Add CA guide (#611)
apache/incubator-kie-kogito-docs: serverlessworkflow/modules/ROOT/pages/cloud/operator/add-custom-ca-to-a-workflow-pod.adoc

The default trust store under `$JAVA_HOME/lib/security/cacerts` contains only CA's which are shipped with the Java distribution and there's the `keytool` tool that knows how manipulate those key stores.
The containerized application may not know the CA certificate in build time, and so we need to add it to the trust-store in deployment. To automate that we can a combination of an init-container and a shared directory to pass the mutated trust store to the container before it runs. Let's run this step by step:

=== Step 1: Obtain the CA Certificate

Before proceeding, ensure you have the CA certificate file (in PEM format) that you want to add to the Java container. If you don't have it, you may need to obtain it from your system administrator or certificate provider.

For the purpose of this guide we would take the k8s cluster root CA that is automatically deployed into every container under `/var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/ca.crt`

=== Step 2: Prepare a trust store in an init-container

Add or amend this volumes and init-container snippet to your pod spec or podTemplate in a deployment:

> ```yaml

Author: ack

        - -c
        - |
          cp $JAVA_HOME/lib/security/cacerts /opt/new-cacerts/
          chmod +w /opt/new-cacerts/cacerts
          keytool -importcert -no-prompt -keystore /opt/new-cacerts/cacerts -storepass changeit -file /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/ca.crt 
  containers:
    - command:
      - /bin/bash
      - -c
      - |
        curl -L https://gist.githubusercontent.com/rgolangh/b949d8617709d10ba6c690863e52f259/raw/bdea4d757a05b75935bbb57f3f05635f13927b34/Main.java -o curl.java
        java curl.java https://kubernetes
      image: registry.access.redhat.com/ubi9/openjdk-17
      imagePullPolicy: Always
      name: openjdk-17
      volumeMounts:
      - mountPath: /lib/jvm/java-17/lib/security/
        name: new-cacerts
        readOnly: true
      - mountPath: /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount
        name: kube-api-access-5npmd
        readOnly: true
  volumes:
  - name: new-cacerts
    emptyDir: {}
  - name: kube-api-access-5npmd
    projected:
      sources:
      - serviceAccountToken:
          path: token
      - configMap:
          items:
          - key: ca.crt
            path: ca.crt
          name: kube-root-ca.crt
```

> === Serverless Workflow Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== {product_name} Example
```

> Similar to a deployment spec a serverless workflow has a spec.podTemplate , with minor differences, but the change is almost identical.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Similar to a deployment spec, a serverless workflow has a spec.podTemplate , with minor differences, but the change is almost identical.
```

> Similar to a deployment spec, a serverless workflow has a spec.podTemplate, with minor differences, but the change is almost identical.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to a deployment spec, a workflow has a spec.podTemplate, with minor differences, but the change is almost identical.
```

> In this case we are mounting some ingress ca bundle because we want our workflow to reach the `.apps.my-cluster-name.my-cluster-domain` SSL endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case we are mounting some ingress CA bundle because we want our workflow to reach the `.apps.my-cluster-name.my-cluster-domain` SSL endpoint.
```

```yaml
#...
spec:
  flow:
  # ...
  podTemplate:
    container:
      volumeMounts:
      - mountPath: /lib/jvm/java-17/lib/security/
        name: new-cacerts
    initContainers:
    - command:
      - /bin/bash
      - -c
      - |
        cp $JAVA_HOME/lib/security/cacerts /opt/new-cacerts/
        chmod +w /opt/new-cacerts/cacerts
        keytool -importcert -no-prompt -keystore /opt/new-cacerts/cacerts -storepass changeit -file /opt/ingress-ca/ca-bundle.crt
      image: registry.access.redhat.com/ubi9/openjdk-17
      name: add-kube-root-ca-to-cacerts
      volumeMounts:
      - mountPath: /opt/new-cacerts
        name: new-cacerts
      - mountPath: /opt/ingress-ca
        name: ingress-ca
    volumes:
    - emptyDir: {}
      name: new-cacerts
    - configMap:
        name: default-ingress-cert
      name: ingress-ca
    - name: kube-api-access-5npmd
      projected:
        sources:
        - serviceAccountToken:
            path: token
        - configMap:
            items:
            - key: ca.crt
              path: ca.crt
            name: kube-root-ca.crt
```

== Additional Resources

* Keytool documentation: {keytool-docs}

> * Example of a podSpec with certificate initialization: https://gist.githubusercontent.com/rgolangh/90fa261c3a6a12bc1dbe89fa3ad4842b/raw/4875aeb353d47b471c453452e4862a1509161c88/pods-with-cert-init.yaml

Author: I'll just remove it since it's in the end what I included in the 'Full working example' section

= Adding a custom CA Certificate to a Container Running Java
:compat-mode!:
:keywords: kogito, sonataflow, workflow, serverless, operator, kubernetes, minikube, openshift, containers
:keytool-docs: https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/21/docs/specs/man/keytool.html

> If you're working with containers running Java applications and need to add a CA (Certificate Authority) certificate for secure communication, you can follow these steps. This guide assumes you are familiar with containers and have basic knowledge of working with YAML files.

Reviewer: Agreed, this change would detour from the original goal.

:toc:

> == Problem Space 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
== Problem space 
```

> If you have a containerized Java application that connects to an SSL endpoint with a certificate signed by an internal authority (like SSL terminated routes on a cluster) you need to make sure Java can read the CA Authority certificate and verify it. Java unfortunately doesn't load certificates directly, but rather store them in a {keytool-docs}[keystore].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you have a containerized Java application that connects to an SSL endpoint with a certificate signed by an internal authority (like SSL terminated routes on a cluster), you need to make sure Java can read and verify the CA Authority certificate. Java unfortunately doesn't load certificates directly but rather stores them in a {keytool-docs}[keystore].
```

> The default trust store under `$JAVA_HOME/lib/security/cacerts` contains only CA's which are shipped with the Java distribution and there's the `keytool` tool that knows how to manipulate those key stores.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The default trust store under `$JAVA_HOME/lib/security/cacerts` contains only CA's that are shipped with the Java distribution and there is the `keytool` tool that knows how to manipulate those key stores.
```

> The containerized application may not know the CA certificate in build time, and so we need to add it to the trust-store in deployment. To automate that we can use a combination of an init-container and a shared directory to pass the mutated trust store to the container before it runs. Let's run this step by step:

Reviewer 3: `trust-store` is this kind of functionality? or UI element? If yes, then you can bold it. 
```suggestion
The containerized application may not know the CA certificate in build time, so we need to add it to the `trust-store` in deployment. To automate that we can use a combination of an init-container and a shared directory to pass the mutated trust store to the container before it runs. Let's run this step by step:
```

=== Step 1: Obtain the CA Certificate

> Before proceeding, ensure you have the CA certificate file (in PEM format) that you want to add to the Java container. If you don't have it, you may need to obtain it from your system administrator or certificate provider.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Before proceeding, ensure you have the CA certificate file (in PEM format) that you want to add to the Java container. If you don't have it, you may need to obtain it from your system administrator or certificate provider.
```

> For the purpose of this guide we would take the k8s cluster root CA that is automatically deployed into every container under `/var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/ca.crt`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For this guide, we would take the k8s cluster root CA that is automatically deployed into every container under `/var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/ca.crt`
```

=== Step 2: Prepare a trust store in an init-container

> Add or amend this volumes and init-container snippet to your pod spec or podTemplate in a deployment:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Add or amend these volumes and init-container snippet to your pod spec or `podTemplate` in a deployment:
```

Author: nice catch! thanks

[source,yaml]
---
spec:
  volumes:
    - name: new-cacerts
      emptyDir: {}
  initContainers:
    - name:  add-kube-root-ca-to-cacerts
      image: registry.access.redhat.com/ubi9/openjdk-17
      volumeMounts:
        - mountPath: /opt/new-cacerts
          name: new-cacerts
      command:
        - /bin/bash
        - -c
        - |
          cp $JAVA_HOME/lib/security/cacerts /opt/new-cacerts/
          chmod +w /opt/new-cacerts/cacerts
          keytool -importcert -no-prompt -keystore /opt/new-cacerts/cacerts -storepass changeit -file /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/ca.crt
---

The default keystore under `$JAVA_HOME` is part of the container image and is not mutable. We have to create the mutated copy to a shared volume, hence the 'new-cacerts' one.

=== Step 3: Configure Java to load the new keystore

> Here we would just mount the new, modified cacerts into the default location where the JVM looks at.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here you can mount the new, modified `cacerts` into the default location where the JVM looks.
```

> The Main.java example uses the standard http client so alternatively we could mount the cacerts to a different location and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `Main.java` example uses the standard HTTP client so alternatively you could mount the `cacerts` to a different location and
```

> configure the Java runtime to load the new keystore with a system property `-Djavax.net.ssl.trustStore`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
configure the Java runtime to load the new keystore with a `-Djavax.net.ssl.trustStore` system property.
```

> Note that libraries like resteasy don't respect that flag and may need to programmatically set the trust store location.

Reviewer 3: Is it **rest easy** or **resteasy**?
```suggestion
Note that libraries like `resteasy` don't respect that flag and may need to programmatically set the trust store location.
```

  containers:
    - command:
      - /bin/bash
      - -c
      - |
        curl -L https://gist.githubusercontent.com/rgolangh/b949d8617709d10ba6c690863e52f259/raw/bdea4d757a05b75935bbb57f3f05635f13927b34/Main.java -o curl.java
        java curl.java https://kubernetes
      image: registry.access.redhat.com/ubi9/openjdk-17
      imagePullPolicy: Always
      name: openjdk-17
      volumeMounts:
      - mountPath: /lib/jvm/java-17/lib/security/
        name: new-cacerts
        readOnly: true
      - mountPath: /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount
        name: kube-api-access-5npmd
        readOnly: true
  volumes:
  - name: new-cacerts
    emptyDir: {}
  - name: kube-api-access-5npmd
    projected:
      sources:
      - serviceAccountToken:
          path: token
      - configMap:
          items:
          - key: ca.crt
            path: ca.crt
          name: kube-root-ca.crt
---

=== {product_name} Example

Similar to a deployment spec, a serverless workflow has a spec.podTemplate, with minor differences, but the change is almost identical.

> In this case we are mounting some ingress ca bundle because we want our workflow to reach the `.apps.my-cluster-name.my-cluster-domain` SSL endpoint.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this case, we are mounting some ingress ca-bundle because we want our workflow to reach the `.apps.my-cluster-name.my-cluster-domain` SSL endpoint.
```
